Let's talk about packaging and deployment of a Spring Boot application.
Spring Boot is very flexible and can deploy your apps to a variety of platforms.
Spring Boot based applications can be packaged as a traditional web
application in a .war file and deployed to an external application server
or as an executable JAR file with an embedded server.
In this lesson, for Trackzilla,
I'm taking a simpler approach to create a standalone application.
I'm packaging everything in an executable JAR file with the main method.
I will use Spring support for embedding a Tomcat servlet container
instead of deploying to an external instance.
If you notice in the POM file at the very bottom,
there is a Spring Boot Maven plugin. The Spring Boot Maven
plugin provides many convenient features.
It repackages your .jar and .war files to make them executable.
For .jar files, it collects all the jars on the classpath and
builds a single runnable uber jar.
It also runs your Spring Boot application and searches for the
public static void main method to flag as a runnable class. It
provides a built‑in dependency resolver that sets the version number
to match Spring Boot dependencies.
And it also manages the lifecycle of the Spring Boot application and
generates build information that can be used by a tool called the
actuator that provides app monitoring and metrics, which we will talk about later.